---
date: "2024-06-25"
description: "I...finished!"
paige:
  file_link:
    disable: false
  style: |
    #paige-authors,
    #paige-date,
    #paige-keywords,
    #paige-reading-time,
    #paige-series,
    #paige-toc,
    .paige-authors,
    .paige-date,
    .paige-date-header,
    .paige-keywords,
    .paige-reading-time,
    .paige-series,
    .paige-summary {
        display: block;
    }
series: ["cycling"]
tags: ["cycling"]
title: "Ironman 70.3 Eagleman Results 2024"
---
Okay, I did it! I finished an Ironman 70.3. I was hoping to finish between 5h30m and 6h. I finished in 6h6m. 

## The Swim

I practiced in open water for the first time in this training cycle the day before the race. When I practiced, it was hours beyond the time of day I would swim for the race, so that water was choppy from wind and boats. The choppiness was difficult so I downgraded my estimated time since the swim leg is self seeded. I was originally thinking 45m to finish the swim, but with the choppiness I changed to 50m. The next morning the water looked very calm so I readjusted and self seeded with the 45m folks. I finished in 57m. The discrepency is from a few factors including a lack of open water training and sighting problems. I can only breath to my right but the buoys were on my left. During the swim, I was drifting. I ended up swimming an extra 300-400 yards. Physically, I felt great, but mentally I knew that things were not going well. When I got out of the water, I looked at my watch, accepted the result, and just moved on.

## Transition 1

When I came out of the water, I wasn't sure where the transition started (via chip timing). In retrospect, I think the check point was the first bit of dry land. I walked for about 30 seconds somewhat demoralized from the swim, but I knew that I had few doubts about the next two disciplines. Leading up to the race, I made the choice to take my sweet time in the transitions to ensure that I was as comfortable as possible for the cycling and running portions. That is to say that I had no estimate for what my transitions might take other than one practice where I had about 7 minute transitions. This transition was 9m. I saw my friends and did a little performative changing bit for them since I was completely changing from swim gear into cycling gear. After about 8 minutes, I was ready to go but then you have to jog your bike out to the mount line. 

## The Bike

I practice on my rental tri bike the day before the race. This practice was my first time on any tri bike outside. At home, I practiced with aero bars on a stationary bike. The bike felt light, but wobbly when I was in the aero bar position. I had a feeling that the bike leg would be a bit of a wildcard; however, from beginning to end, I was in complete control of the bike and hitting my performance goals. The first half of the 56 miles had a decent headwind but I bided my time at about 18mph into the wind then kicked it up over 20mph in the second half with the tail wind. Overall, I averaged 19.4mph. There wasn't a lot to note. The bike was comfy and I was mostly passing people which helped a lot mentally. Oh, and at one of the aid stations, I threw my spent water bottle directly into the trash can at 20mph, which made me feel smooth.

## Transition 2

After the bike, I felt really good. I didn't burnout on the bike even with the headwinds. So, in the transition, I was feeling pretty confident about my sub 6h result. I took my time in the transition, which took 9m again. This time, I had to make a quick pee stop, so that added additional time. By the time that I was heading to the start of the run, I felt great. 

## The Run 

When I first started turning over my legs, I definitely felt some fatigue from the bike, but my stride and pace felt good. I looked down at my watch and saw 7:30m/mile pace. I didn't feel like I was pushing very hard, so I was delighted. After the first mile, the heat and humidity started to take their toll. I settled into an easier 8m/mile pace. My goal for the run was to average under an 8:15m/mile pace. The sun was hot and I was slowing for each aid station to guzzle hydration and water. My friends and partner were out on the course cheering, so I was feeling pretty good until about mile 4 when the heat and humidity started to creep in. I kept pushing through until the halfway point (lap 1). I want to note that having to do 2 laps is demoralizing especially with the heat. After lap 1, I was averaging about 
